{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh18000\viewkind0
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Select * records from customers\
\ls1\ilvl0{\listtext	2.	}select * from customers where subscription_level = 'Premium'\
{\listtext	3.	}select distinct * from customers\
{\listtext	4.	}select count(*) from customers where state = 'NY' 
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 order by state;\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	5.	}select full_name, email from customers where subscription_end_date is NULL;\
{\listtext	6.	}create index state_index on customers(state);\
{\listtext	7.	}insert into customers(full_name, email, subscription_level,subscription_start_date, subscription_end_date, state) values('Charles Walker', 'cwalker@email.com', 'Premium', '2024-07-15', NULL, 'MI')\
{\listtext	8.	}UPDATE customers set subscription_level = 'Premium' where full_name = 'Emma Collins'\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7125\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	9.	}select count(*) from customers where email like '%.edu'\
{\listtext	10.	}delete from customers where subscription_end_date < '2024/08/01'\
{\listtext	11.	}select full_name, email from customers where state = 'NY' and subscription_level = 'Premium' order by full_name\
{\listtext	12.	}Create table meals(meal_id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, meal_name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL, calories INT, price DECIMAL(10, 2), is_vegetarian BOOL, subscription_level VARCHAR(50));\
{\listtext	13.	}insert into meals(meal_id, meal_name, calories, price, is_vegetarian, subscription_level) values(('vegetable salad', 250, 7.99, true, 'standard'), ('grilled chicken', 450, 12.99, false, 'premium'),('vegan wrap', 300, 8.99, true, 'premium');\
{\listtext	14.	}INSERT INTO meals (meal_name, calories, price, is_vegetarian, subscription_level) VALUES ('Truffle Risotto', 700, 25.00, FALSE, 'Premium'),('Lobster Mac & Cheese', 900, 28.00, FALSE, 'Premium'), ('Vegetable Quiche', 500, 11.00, TRUE, 'Standard'),('Roasted Duck Breast', 700, 22.50, FALSE, 'Premium'),('Mushroom Stroganoff', 500, 12.00, TRUE, 'Standard'),('Filet Mignon', 700, 30.00, FALSE, 'Premium'),('Greek Salad', 500, 9.00, TRUE, 'Standard'),('Wild Mushroom Soup', 500, 14.00, TRUE, 'Premium'),('Chicken Parmesan', 700, 13.50, FALSE, 'Standard'),('Seafood Paella', 900, 26.00, FALSE, 'Premium');\
{\listtext	15.	}select * from meals limit 5\
{\listtext	16.	}select * from meals order by calories desc, price asc;\
\pard\tx220\tx585\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7125\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	17.	}UPDATE meals SET price = price + 5.00 where 'premium' = subscription_level\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7125\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	18.	}UPDATE meals SET price = price + 5.00 where 'premium' = subscription_level\
{\listtext	19.	}SELECT * FROM meals WHERE price BETWEEN 10.00 and 20.00\
{\listtext	20.	}ALTER TABLE meals ADD INT VARCHAR(255)\
{\listtext	21.	}create table oops (columns_id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,  foo INT) drop table oops\
{\listtext	22.	}select subscription_level, count(meal_name) from meals group by subscription_level\
{\listtext	23.	}select subscription_level, avg(price) from meals group by subscription_level\
{\listtext	24.	}select is_vegetarian, avg(calories) from meals group by is_vegetarian\
{\listtext	25.	}select subscription_level, min(price) from meals group by subscription_level\
{\listtext	26.	}select state, count(state) from customers group by state order by state asc\
{\listtext	27.	}select state, count(state) from customers group by state having count(state) > 5 order by count(state) \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7125\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}