{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue12;\red255\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cspthree\c99608\c14902\c15686;\cspthree\c98405\c14524\c9007;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\'01;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh17440\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Add a person to the collection. You pick the data, but they should have an empty array for children. \cf3 db.people.insertMany([ \{"first_name":"James","last_name":"Meridith","email":"ljmeredith@uiuc.edu","gender":"Male","age":39,"state":"Texas","children":[]\}]);\cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Add another person. They should have at least two children. \cf3 db.people.insertOne([\{"first_name":"Raven","last_name":"Gamble","email":"RGamble@disney.com","gender":"Female","age":30,"state":"New York","children":[\{"name":"Azan","age":15\},\{"name":"Mela","age":1\}]\}]);\cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Update one person named Clarence. He moved from North Dakota to South Dakota. \cf3 db.people.updateOne(\{first_name: "Clarence"\}, \{$set: \{state: "South Dakota"\}\})\cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4	}F	5	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Update everyone from Missouri. They all had a birthday today, so add one to their age. (expect 4 matches) \cf3 db.people.updateMany(\{state: "Missouri"\}, \{$inc: \{age: 1\}\})\cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	5	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Jerry Baker has updated information. Replace with a new document:\uc0\u8232 
\f1 \{ first_name: "Jerry", last_nme: "Baker-Mendez", email: "jerry@classic.ly", gender:"Male", age: 28, state: "Vermont", "children": [\{name: "Alan", age: 18\}, \{name: "Jenny", age: 3\}] \} 
\f2\fs24 \cf3 \strokec2 db.people.updateOne(\{ first_name: "Jerry" \}, \{ $set: \{first_name: "Jerry", last_name: "Baker-Mendez", email: "jerry@classic.ly", gender: "Male", age: 28, state: "Vermont", children: [\{ name: "Alan", age: 18 \}, \{ name: "Jenny", age: 3 \}]\}\})
\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	6	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Delete Wanda Bowman. \cf3 db.people.deleteOne(\{first_name: "Wanda", last_name: "Bowman"\})\cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	7	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Delete everyone who does not have an email address specified. (expect 36 matches - maybe more depending what you added above)
\f2\fs24 \cf3 \strokec2 db.people.find(\{ email: null \})
\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	8	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Create a single field index on the email field. \cf3 db.people.createIndex(\{email: 1\})\cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	9	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Create a compound index on the first_name and last_name fields. \cf3 db.people.createIndex(\{first_name: 1,last_name: 1\})
\f2\fs24 \cf0 \strokec2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	10	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Add several documents to a new 
\f1 submissions
\f0  collection. Do it all in one command. (Remember, MongoDB will create the collection for you. Just start adding documents.)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 title: "The River Bend", upvotes: 10, downvotes: 2, artist: <ID of Anna Howard>\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 title: "Nine Lives", upvotes: 7, downvotes: 0, artist: <ID of Scott Henderson>\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 title: "Star Bright", upvotes: 19, downvotes: 3, artist: <ID of Andrea Burke>\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 title: "Why Like This?", upvotes: 1, downvotes: 5, artist: <ID of Steven Marshall>\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	5	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 title: "Non Sequitur", upvotes: 11, downvotes: 1, artist: <ID of Gerald Bailey>\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	11	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Add 2 upvotes for "The River Bend". \cf3  db.submissions.updateOne(\{title: "The River Bend"\}, \{$inc: \{upvotes: 2\}\})\cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	12	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Add a field round2 = true to all submissios with at least 10 upvotes. (expect 3 matches)  \cf4 db.submissions.updateMany(\{upvotes: \{$gte: 10\}\}, \{$set: \{round2: true\}\})\cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	13	}a\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 dd a field round2 = true to all submissions with at least 10 upvotes. (expect 3 matches) 
\f2\fs24 \strokec2 db.submissions.updateMany(\{ upvotes: \{ $gte: 10 \} \},\{ $set: \{ round2: true \} \})
\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
{\listtext	14	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Update Helen Clark. She had a baby! Add a child, name: Melanie, age: 0. \cf3 db.people.updateOne(\{first_name: "Helen", last_name: "Clark"\},\{$push: \{ children: \{name: "Melanie", age: 0\}\}\})\cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	15	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Joan Bishop has a child named Catherine. She just had a birthday and prefers to go by "Cat". In one query update the child's name to "Cat" and increment her age by one. d\cf3 b.people.updateOne(\{first_name: "Joan", last_name: "Bishop", "children.name": "Catherine"\}, \{ $set: \{ "children.$.name": "Cat"\}, $inc: \{"children.$.age": 1\}\})\cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	16	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 List all submissions that have more downvotes than upvotes.  \cf3 db.submissions.find(\{$expr: \{$gt: ["$downvotes", "$upvotes"]\}\})\cf0 \
}